documentation.md, before:

### Team member contributions

Name|Preparation|Participation|Reliability|Comment|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|James Hessell-Bowman|10|10|10||
|Joe van der Zwet|10|10|10||


### Missing Specs
Actual Requirements Backend 

|Requirement|Status|Comments|
|--|--|---|
|User can create account|[x]|done|
|Users can create note|[x]|done|
|User who creates note is owner of note|[x]|done|
|All users have access to the list of users|[x]|done on the front end|
|A note can be shared with other user|[x]|done|
|Note share read privilege|[x]|done|
|Note share edit privileges|[x]|done|
|Notes contain just text and meta data|[x]|ours also contains a subtitle and the ability to do markdown|done|
|Users can edit or read notes depending on privileges|[x]|done|
|The owner of a note can add more people to note.viewers and note.editors|[x]|done|
|The owner of the note is also the only one who can add new people to the list of editors and viewers|[x]|done|
|Third table that contains userid, user.viewers array, user.editors array for ease of sharing|[x]|done|
|Ability to apply said common settings to a note|[x]|done|

Actual Requirements Frontend 
|Feature|Status|Comments|
|---|---|---|
|Login Page for selecting current user|[x]|done|
|Register Page for making new users|[x]|done|
|Home Page that shows all notes a user has access to|[x]|Pretty sure this is done|
|Note access page/component for displaying note information|[x]|It looks pretty cool tbh|
|Note edit button that allows changes with a submit button|[x]|done|
|Note access change button that opens access screen|[x]|done|
|Access screen has a list of users that can read and edit this note|[x]|**Extra Add**|
|Access screen has a dropdown of all the users and a radio button for no access, viewer, editor|[x]|done|
|Search bar for filtering and counting|[x]|done|
|User List Page|[x]|This is technically required and we have it twice. It could be removed.|
|Ability to filter notes you can access|[x]|done|
|Users can count occurrences of the following among notes they have access to|[x]|done|
|A sentence with a given prefix or suffix|[x]|done|
|A phone number with a give area code and/or consecutive number pattern|[x]|done|
|An email address on a domain that is only partially provided|[x]|done|
|Text that contains at least three of the following case sensitive words. [meeting, minutes, agenda, action, attendees, apologies]|[x]|done|
|A 3+ letter word thats all caps|[x]|done|

### Usage Instructions
#### Initial Setup
##### Postgres
- Run Postgres.
- In PGADMIN go to servers on the left
- Right click, Create Server, Name: postgres
- Connection tab, hostname: localhost
- Save

##### Enterprise Note
- Extract the files to a folder
- Edit the .env file to point to your postgres
- Run the exe
//TODO initial database creation instructions

### Maintenance 
None should be required. The program is very set and forget other than keeping on top of any bugs that might pop up that we haven't found yet.
### Design Choices
Initially our plan was to use flutter for the front end but with some playing around we found it a bit clunky for a web interface. So we switched to React and implemented a full front end with that. 
We use Material Design as our UI framework because it looks amazing and is easy to use with react. Coding everything in typescript has been relatively easy to work out and making components is quite interesting and fun. 
### Features
Enterprise Note is a fully functional note taking application that could be used in every day life with the functionality it has now. So far included is:
- Full user registration
- Ability to create, read, update and edit notes
- Ability to share notes with other users including letting them edit your notes
- Ability to search the notes you have access for a list of predefined criteria
- Partial markdown support for notes.

### Deployment requirements
- Access to a server where you can run an exe and use two ports.
#### Features that could have been client or server side
- Searching I think was our only feature that could have been both but when we implemented base64 encoding on the notes it made it impossible to do the searching via regex and postgres queries.
#### Explain database design choices
- Our database has 3 tables all linked though they probably don't need to be.
- We have a User, Note and UserSettings Table.
- The user is all the information the user requires to exist.
- The note is all the information in a note
- UserSettings is for a users commonly shared settings.
- The tables are technically linked with foreign keys I think but we don't actually join any of the tables because we didn't need to for our purposes.
#### Discuss how we deal with multiple browsers and OS's
The beauty of react and material design is that it works the same on all browsers and has built in support for media queries and break points so it should look great on all devices. 
Go as a backend cross compiles to most operating systems so it should run on any kind of server or desktop as required.
#### Quick start guide for installing on a new server
//TODO Link the thing above when its 100% done
#### Things that we not in the initial spec but had to be added to make it work.
- A decent front end. There is no way we were going to use standard html/css
- Markdown support for actual quality notes.
- Better searching because the standard requirements were gross.


### Delivery Reqs
Zip Everything and send it in

Commit message:

chore:documentation and database intialisation

documentation.md, after:

### Team member contributions

Name|Preparation|Participation|Reliability|Comment|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|James Hessell-Bowman|10|10|10||
|Joe van der Zwet|10|10|10||


### Missing Specs
Actual Requirements Backend 

|Requirement|Status|Comments|
|--|--|---|
|User can create account|[x]|done|
|Users can create note|[x]|done|
|User who creates note is owner of note|[x]|done|
|All users have access to the list of users|[x]|done on the front end|
|A note can be shared with other user|[x]|done|
|Note share read privilege|[x]|done|
|Note share edit privileges|[x]|done|
|Notes contain just text and meta data|[x]|ours also contains a subtitle and the ability to do markdown|done|
|Users can edit or read notes depending on privileges|[x]|done|
|The owner of a note can add more people to note.viewers and note.editors|[x]|done|
|The owner of the note is also the only one who can add new people to the list of editors and viewers|[x]|done|
|Third table that contains userid, user.viewers array, user.editors array for ease of sharing|[x]|done|
|Ability to apply said common settings to a note|[x]|done|

Actual Requirements Frontend 
|Feature|Status|Comments|
|---|---|---|
|Login Page for selecting current user|[x]|done|
|Register Page for making new users|[x]|done|
|Home Page that shows all notes a user has access to|[x]|Pretty sure this is done|
|Note access page/component for displaying note information|[x]|It looks pretty cool tbh|
|Note edit button that allows changes with a submit button|[x]|done|
|Note access change button that opens access screen|[x]|done|
|Access screen has a list of users that can read and edit this note|[x]|**Extra Add**|
|Access screen has a dropdown of all the users and a radio button for no access, viewer, editor|[x]|done|
|Search bar for filtering and counting|[x]|done|
|User List Page|[x]|This is technically required and we have it twice. It could be removed.|
|Ability to filter notes you can access|[x]|done|
|Users can count occurrences of the following among notes they have access to|[x]|done|
|A sentence with a given prefix or suffix|[x]|done|
|A phone number with a give area code and/or consecutive number pattern|[x]|done|
|An email address on a domain that is only partially provided|[x]|done|
|Text that contains at least three of the following case sensitive words. [meeting, minutes, agenda, action, attendees, apologies]|[x]|done|
|A 3+ letter word thats all caps|[x]|done|

### Usage Instructions
#### Initial Setup
##### Postgres
- Run Postgres.
- In PGADMIN go to servers on the left
- Right click, Create Server, Name: postgres
- Connection tab, hostname: localhost
- Save

##### Enterprise Note
- Extract the files to a folder
- Edit the .env file to point to your postgres
- Run the exe

### Maintenance 
None should be required. The program is very set and forget other than keeping on top of any bugs that might pop up that we haven't found yet.
### Design Choices
Initially our plan was to use flutter for the front end but with some playing around we found it a bit clunky for a web interface. So we switched to React and implemented a full front end with that. 
We use Material Design as our UI framework because it looks amazing and is easy to use with react. Coding everything in typescript has been relatively easy to work out and making components is quite interesting and fun. 
### Features
Enterprise Note is a fully functional note taking application that could be used in every day life with the functionality it has now. So far included is:
- Full user registration
- Ability to create, read, update and edit notes
- Ability to share notes with other users including letting them edit your notes
- Ability to search the notes you have access for a list of predefined criteria
- Partial markdown support for notes.

### Deployment requirements
- Access to a server where you can run an exe and use two ports.
#### Features that could have been client or server side
- Searching I think was our only feature that could have been both but when we implemented base64 encoding on the notes it made it impossible to do the searching via regex and postgres queries.
#### Explain database design choices
- Our database has 3 tables all linked though they probably don't need to be.
- We have a User, Note and UserSettings Table.
- The user is all the information the user requires to exist.
- The note is all the information in a note
- UserSettings is for a users commonly shared settings.
- The tables are technically linked with foreign keys I think but we don't actually join any of the tables because we didn't need to for our purposes.
#### Discuss how we deal with multiple browsers and OS's
The beauty of react and material design is that it works the same on all browsers and has built in support for media queries and break points so it should look great on all devices. 
Go as a backend cross compiles to most operating systems so it should run on any kind of server or desktop as required.
#### Quick start guide for installing on a new server
##### Postgres
- Run Postgres.
- In PGADMIN go to servers on the left
- Right click, Create Server, Name: postgres
- Connection tab, hostname: localhost
- Save

##### Enterprise Note
- Extract the files to a folder
- Edit the .env file to point to your postgres
- Run the exe

#### Things that we not in the initial spec but had to be added to make it work.
- A decent front end. There is no way we were going to use standard html/css
- Markdown support for actual quality notes.
- Better searching because the standard requirements were gross.


### Delivery Reqs
Zip Everything and send it in
